If he’d run she would have let him go. He wore an academy uniform. One of the men that Khato brought. They might have slept near each other in the barracks, in perfect trust. As it was now he tried to smartly take advantage of her distracted state, but lacked the ability to follow through. She was down but not out, and when he thrust his blade at her she bounced up and slashed through the flesh of his calf. Now he was down and her next move kept him there.
She surveyed the surroundings. No sign of Cal or the headmaster. He had survived the falling tower, she was sure of that—feeling his presence—but in what state she didn’t know. Likely he was there on the other side of the dust cloud. Better not to call out. That infernal dragon still circled above and other guards yet lived. She hopped through the rubble, moving toward Cal like a beacon.
Something grabbed her leg. A hand. Without a moment’s hesitation she swiped to sever it but another seized her in just the banner to throw her off balance for a moment. No harm was though and her ankle came free and she stepped back to see. Dragging himself out of the rubble, Yatta’s battered and bloody face glared at her defiantly. She had not given him another thought after having been sure the tower had crushed him.
And so it had. His left arm was beyond broken and it seemed his chest had taken quite a hit as well. Even feet away she could see the blood visibly gushing through his armor. How he continued to draw breath, much less stand, she couldn’t fathom. And he hadn’t lost his sword either.
Then it occurred to her, while raising her sword to the ready. She should have realized after their first battle.
“Lie down, Yatta. You’re dead.”
His jaw bounced around feebly. The once handsome soldier was now a grizzly walking corpse. “Not until you are,” he said.
He came at her. His unhurt arm more than made up for the broken one, moving with the very same superhuman fluidity and strength he’d always possessed. In fact he wasn’t diminished at all, which didn’t bode well for her chances. The dragon’s random destruction had saved her before, but obviously wouldn’t be repeated. She didn’t even have time to spare a moment for the sky. It took all she had just to keep his blade from eviscerating her.
Even worse, he was forcing her backward into the covered alley. No one could see in the dark as well as her, or so she thought. Yatta apparently had no trouble at all but soon she would. Indeed her next parry came too slow and when he pulled his blade back it sliced against her forearm with a sudden icy pain.
Reeling away to buy just a few moments, she danced her fingers over her sword’s steel. In a flash the symbols silently ignited and bathed the alley in light. Seeing this, Yatta ceased his pursuit and delayed, squinting at the blade with unusual caution. Not wasting a good opening, she lashed toward him hoping the surprise would buy her some advantage. He blocked as always but each time he gave a minute flinch as if the hit was somehow stinging. At first she wondered if his injuries were getting the best of him, though his reflexes hadn’t changed and he quickly regained his aggressive confidence.
The narrow passage wasn’t her ideal fighting field and again he started to force her back into unknown territory. Their skills were so closely matched as to be near stalemate, but Yatta had unnatural powers on his side and remained undaunted despite the oozing trails of clotting blood leaking from his orifices, squirting onto her as his blows rained relentlessly. Her sense of Cal’s life force or soul or whatever it was began to dull and would soon be too far to sense. She was going to lose him again, because she was failing. A part of her might be relieved to die if only she believed death would end her degradation.
Yatta’s skin flushed red as if burned by the sun. It hadn’t been that way. It took too long to notice but now she did. She made a foolish movement to get her sword as close in as she could and paid the price with a gash across her shoulder. But it proved sufficient to confirm her suspicions. Rising blisters marked his face where she’d almost touched him. Yatta knew that she knew and commenced a wild and reckless assault. One way or another it would end now. She saw the way his blade was coming and instantly realized she likely couldn’t stop it. Deciding not to even try to defend, she left herself entirely open and seized the narrow window of opportunity. In tandem she felt his blade enter her chest and pass through while she also drove hers into the base of his ribcage. For a moment they stood nailed to each other like some fatal lovers’ embrace.
The hilt vibrated in her hand. A violent bubbling of steam rose from Yatta’s wound, burning hot then bursting into a fiery conflagration. She jerked away, the blade pulling back through her chest with more pain than before. They came apart and Yatta fell to his knees. The vacant and lifeless expression his face held before twisted into pure terror and he dropped his sword and reached out toward Kidias as if for help until the flames erupting from within spread to a total engulfing.
He burned briefly, just one fire of many that night, soon becoming little more than a leaning pillar of ash crumbling onto itself.
Her wound may be fatal but it wasn’t yet. She could still stand and walk, holding her torso stiff to minimize the pain. At least it must have missed her heart. She stepped through Yatta’s powdery remains and exited the alley. No concentration was necessary to realize that Cal had moved beyond her senses. What a disaster. The anguish of her failures well exceeded that of the damage to her body. Any idiot should have seen that the alchemist woman would betray them. Deferring to Cal’s overly trustful sensibilities had cost them. When and if she found him again she would make him listen to her.
As the dragon had not come near again she’d almost forgotten about it. Evidently its destruction continued unabated. It was not of this world. She might have thought Cal had brought it here if it hadn’t nearly killed him and her both. Although maybe he did summon it only to have it break from his control. That wouldn’t have surprised her.
The fact that they’d wheeled his carriage to center city church obviously meant that way where they’d intended to deliver him. Shuffling down the fire-lined main street with her sword drawn but now inconspicuously darkened again, she approached the base of the so-called cathedral. Like the academy it was enclosed by a curtain wall, as well as a deep pit with a low pool of water inside, reflecting the sky. Large chunks of the fallen tower lay inside. Here stood a bridge crossing the gap though. A number of guards congregated blocking the entryway, mostly looking upward and pointing at the dragon, seeming very much like they’d prefer to be somewhere else. She continued toward them. If Cal was confined somewhere in the massive keep she felt sure she would sense it soon.
They hardly paid her attention until she came right to them. Then one surely noticed her sword and alerted the others. Two drew their weapons but didn’t move.
“Did anyone come through her?” she asked.
One shouted in response, less confident than fearful. “The cathedral is closed! Be gone girl!”
She blinked at him then gazed toward the smooth white walls of the towers. Indeed she felt nothing but stark emptiness inside, and believed these men had not seen him. Her search should be elsewhere. As she turned to leave them a few cried out. Their panicked wonder could have only one source and she found it, seeing the dragon’s shape writhing above like a thread of cinder blowing in the wind. It took a jagged and pointless path unlike its earlier intelligent movements, clearly in the grips of some distress. Why would that be? In its new stupidity the thing crashed headlong into the aerial waterway, the outcome the guards had certainly dreaded. Moving on, she left them to their distress as the tall structure fell apart, able to make a rough guess as to which direction the dragon had come from. Someone had fought with it.
Her desire to travel fastly by roof was less tenable in the inner city. In contrast to the mostly squat and densely packed hovels of the wards, the buildings here varied in height and often had roofs topped with gardens and sitting areas. Doable, but slower than by foot. And perhaps it was better not to leap around with a rather precarious hole in her chest.
In the burning areas people seemed to have no idea what to do. They dragged themselves and their possessions from their homes and then stood in their billowy fine nightgowns gaping at the flames and pulling their hair. If they organized they might be able to combat the fires and get something done, instead of blocking her path and distracting her with their screams. She scanned every face and body she saw, though always already knew it wasn’t him. By sitting and breathing and stilling her thoughts she would be able to sense farther out to find some trace of him. Or that might mean she’d stay put uselessly while he slipped out of her grasp forever. Her task quickly felt hopeless.
If he’d clashed with the dragon she could assume he was free, for the headmaster was hardly challenging in comparison. She thought about where he would go. They should have agreed on an emergency rendezvous point. The extent of her incompetence was dazzling. Everything should have been done differently. And still here she was worrying instead of solving the problem.
She laid the bare facts out in her mind. He did not know this part of the city, as far as she knew anyway, and could not leave it. He would be frightened and clueless as to what to do. He would want to find her. She thought like Cal trying to think like Kidias, deciding he would go back to the alchemist’s guildhouse. They had no other location in common, plus he liked and trusted those awful people and maybe didn’t know the guards had stormed the place.
A brilliant white light bathed for several moments. Thousands of amazed exclamations rang out across the cityscape. She looked up and saw what they all saw. The central tower that lorded over everything somehow struck down the dragon. It was but a curious sight on a night full of curious sights and she knew it didn’t involve Cal and spared no more thoughts for it.
It didn’t take long to make her way back to the house. Then finding things very different, she wondered if she’d made a mistake, but of course the house was simply burned beyond recognition. Something that had apparently happened very quickly, for no other place around looked quite the same. This was the birthing place of the dragon. Cal was not there.
For a while she paced through the shadows, waiting. He might still be on the way, not having her speed. As time went on her head began to feel light in a concerning way and her thoughts became more troubled. Down the low hill a man walked back and forth in the street brandishing endless buckets of what must’ve been water, assisting his neighbors in some small way. She resisted until it seemed ridiculous to continue to do so then went to him and asked for a drink. He eyed her strangely but held out a bucket. The water was tepid and tasted of dirt yet refreshed her greatly. Naturally she had spilled quite a bit of blood which needed replenishing.
Newly invigorated, she methodically roamed outward from the house in a spiral pattern. This widened the territory she’d searched while minimizing the chance of Cal slipping by. Soon though the sun started to rise and even this plan appeared increasingly futile. She imagined invisible angelic beings watching her make a fool of herself, marveling at her defeat. She knew they did such things.
After hours of her fruitless wanderings, the first event of any note occurred. She saw that boy, the young alchemist. He’d shed his tunic and wore a black eye
